Input: "How to Get to Porto from Lisbon. Many people visit Porto after spending a few days in Lisbon, and that’s exactly what I did! Thankfully, getting between the two largest cities in Portugal isn’t all that hard! Here’s your options:. Driving to Porto from Lisbon: Driving from Lisbon to Porto takes about 3 hours, and is super easy. The roads are all great quality, and there’s lots of signs! Just remember, you’ll wanna park your car in a parking lot once you arrive in Porto. High Speed Train to Porto: CP – Comboios de Portugal Trains from Lisbon (the Lisboa – Santa Apolonia station) arrive into Porto’s Campanha station. Tickets include a transfer to Sao Bento Station, which is most likely much closer to where your accommodation is in Porto. Trains take about 3 – 3 ½ hours and they’re super affordable. Flying to Porto from Lisbon: From Lisbon’s Humberto Delgado Airport (LIS), you’ll wanna book a flight to Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport (OPO). Check TAP Air Portugal; they’ve got a few nonstops from Lisbon to Porto every day. Direct flights only take about an hour! If you book early enough, you can typically get a ticket for less than $50. Coming from Spain? Combining Spain and Portugal trips are super common. That’s what I did on my first visit to the country a few years ago (and I even tacked on both Fez and Chefchaouen in Morocco for a few days)! Unfortunately there’s no high-speed train running from Madrid to Porto (or Lisbon for that matter). However, Renfe (Spain’s national railway company) offers a modern Trenhotel overnight train to Lisbon from Madrid. Honestly, it’s probably just easier (and more effective) to book a low-cost flight if you’re looking to head from Spain to Porto. How to Get Around During Your 3 Days in Porto. On Foot. Porto is a walking city; you’ll 100% wanna wear comfy shoes! Plus, there’s plenty of cobblestone and uneven ground. And stairs. And hills. The city is pretty small and compact, meaning you can get just about everywhere on foot. Most of the main attractions are close to each other (at most 15-20 minutes away by walking), meaning you can see a whole lot in a short period of time. A word of warning: Porto is essentially one big hill. If you’re down by the waterfront (Ribeira District) and want to get just about anywhere else… well, you’ll be walking up and up and up. Great for those thighs and butt though! Day 2 of this 3 day Porto itinerary has you exploring Ribeira, so be mindful to explore before heading all the way down to the river. During the day, I walked EVERYWHERE. I took an Uber/Bolt back to my room after the sun went down since I hung out by the river every night and my feet were tired (and I didn’t wanna make the walk back up in the dark). Public Transit. For transparency sake, I didn’t use public transit even once during my 3 days in Porto. I just didn’t need it (I got by with walking and calling the occasional Uber). However, Porto does have a pretty good public transit system, operated by the Sociedade de Transportes Colectivos do Porto (STCP). There’s the metro, buses, and even old wooden trams (kinda like those you see in Lisbon). With more than 75 STCP bus routes, six metro lines, and 3 historic tram lines (Line 1, Line 18, and Line 22), you certainly have lots of options! I recommend using the metro as it’s by far the easiest for first time visitors to the city. The bus lines can be kinda confusing and the trams are more expensive. You can buy a Porto Card that gives you access to unlimited transportation on the metro, buses, and funiculars, in addition to discounts on popular attractions. If you’re planning to use public transport a lot as well as check out Porto’s best paid sites, you may save a few euros. Note that Porto Cards are not accepted on the historic tram lines. If you don’t purchase a Porto Card, you’ll need to buy a rechargeable blue Andante card to use the metro. Thankfully, one-way fares start at only 1.20euros; they vary in price depending on how many zones you travel through. Remember – you must validate your card whenever you enter a station or when transferring lines! Find more info on the Porto metro here. Uber/Taxis. Yes, there are plenty of ride-sharing apps available in Porto! These include Uber, Bolt, and FREENOW (Portugal’s cheaper version of Uber). If you’re planning to use any, I recommend downloading them to your phone in advance. Honestly, I kinda just walked everywhere in Porto. The streets are not designed for heavy vehicle traffic, and the roads are tiny and windy. I wouldn’t plan to use many taxis/Ubers during your 3 days in Porto. It’s probably easier (and maybe even faster) to just walk. But just know Uber, Bolt, and FREENOW are readily available in case you find yourself needing one. When to Plan Your 3 Day Porto Itinerary (Weather and Crowds). Overall, unlike other parts of Portugal, Porto experiences a super moderate and mild climate. Meaning it’s never crazy, crazy cold, and never scorching hot (thankfully). If you’re looking for some sunshine, plan a visit anytime between May and September, as you can bet on some rain the other months of the year. If you’ve got max flexibility, try and visit Porto on a weekday. Weekends are always way busier, no matter if it’s summer or winter. Summer (High Season – June to September). Everyone wants to visit Porto in the summer months, and it’s easy to see why. The temps are high (yet bearable with highs around 75°F/25°C) and there seems to be a constant breeze from the river. The weather is beautiful, there’s a bunch of fun open-air festivals (like Nos Primavera Sound, Regata dos Barcos Rabelos, and the Porto Wine Fest), and it’s hot enough to sunbathe at the nearby beaches. Plus the sun doesn’t set until around 9:30pm, so you’ve got plenty of time to explore during the day. Note that accommodation and flights will surely be more expensive (so book early!), and know that it’ll be way more crowded this time of year. You may need to make reservations at top restaurants as well. For reference, I visited Porto in the beginning of August, and had gloriously sunny and warm weather. I was surprised that I had to wear a light jacket once the sun went down though! Sure beats the intense heat in Lisbon and the Algarve. Spring/Fall (Shoulder Seasons – March to May and October). While the temps will be super pleasant this time of year, expect some rain showers during both spring and fall (although way less so than in the winter). In my opinion, the best season to visit Porto is during one of the shoulder seasons – late spring (May to early June) or early autumn (late September to early October). There’s less tourists visiting the city, the weather is still mild (temps in the mid to high 60s°F), and flights/hotels are a bit less expensive than summer. Two benefits to fall: 1. The fall colors along the Douro River are absolutely spectacular, and 2. It’s grape-harvest season at wineries in the Douro Valley (meaning you can see the wine-making and grape-stomping in action). Winter (Low Season – November to February). If you don’t mind cold, rainy days and wanna score some cheap accommodations/flights, winter is your best bet. Just don’t visit in December, the city’s wettest month (it rains more than it doesn’t)! January is the coldest month in Porto, although temps hardly fall below 40°F (5°C), even at night. Weather in winter is super tricky – you may get a misty morning, a sunny afternoon, and a dreadfully cold night. Plan to dress in layers that you can easily remove/add as the day goes on. Honestly, I wouldn’t plan to spend my 3 days in Porto during the rainy winter season. I feel like you’d miss out on so much of the city’s charm by running inside all the time. And the views, ugh you’d miss those gorgeous sunny views! How Long to Spend in Porto. Is 3 days in Porto enough? I totally think so! The city is pretty compact, and you can easily see all the main highlights in just two. Including exploring all the main sites, seeing a Fado show, tasting some port wine over in Vila Nova de Gaia, and checking out plenty of amazing viewpoints. But I highly recommend adding a third day to your Porto itinerary so you can tack on a day trip! If you only have one full day in Porto, you can probably squeeze in a whole bunch of attractions. BUT it’ll feel extremely rushed. Porto, like Port wine, is meant to be savored, so I recommend at least 2 full days to see this historic little city. Where to Stay in Porto. If this is your first time to Porto, you’ll wanna base yourself somewhere pretty central. Most tourists prefer to stay in Ribeira (the gorgeous riverside district), Baixa/Se (super central and near lots of public transit), or Bolhão/Santo Ildefonso (along the shopping street of Rua de Santa Catarina). Thankfully, Porto is pretty small and you can walk from neighborhood to neighborhood quite easily. When doing my research on Porto accommodations, I found way more apartments than typical hotels in the city center. Because of this, I opted for a managed apartment that felt like a hotel – someone at check-in, daily cleaning service (if I wanted it), and a swanky common space. Ribeira. Ribeira is easily Porto’s prettiest waterfront neighborhood with fantastic views of Dom Luís I Bridge and Vila Nova de Gaia. It’s known for its colorful, historic houses and tiny, windy alleyways all leading to the Douro River. Expect tons of charm and interesting corners, and plan to get lost a bit – there’s no escaping it! There’s a reason it’s the most popular neighborhood to stay in Porto. Do note that Ribeira is located at the bottom of a hill near the river, meaning you’ll need to work those glutes to reach most of the other attractions during your 3 days in Porto. Not the worst thing, but you’ll probably get a bit tired from all that uphill walking, especially in the height of summer. Recommended hotels in Ribeira:. Pestana Vintage Porto Hotel: a luxury 5 star hotel with comfy and spacious rooms (decked out in great decor) and views of the Douro River! Manor House Porto: set in a historic old stone building with the best garden (complete with fruit trees!) overlooking the bridge and river. The perfect place to relax after a busy morning! Mo House: a classic design with large French doors and wrought-iron balconies overlooking the Douro River of course. One of the favorites in Ribeira. Baixa/Sé. Baixa is Porto’s downtown area and it’ll undoubtedly be crowded, but you’ll be close to all the action! It’s super central and close to many of the attractions you’ll be visiting on this 3 day Porto itinerary, including Avenida dos Aliados, São Bento railway station, Rua das Flores, Clerigos Church and Tower, and the crazy popular Lello bookshop. If you’re into nightlife, you’ll be pleased to know that this area has the city’s liveliest nightlife. Recommended hotels in Baixa and Sé (Downtown Porto). Torel 1884 Suites and Apartments: With eclectic old world furnishings and apartments overlooking Rua de Flores, you can’t beat this hotel! Plus, it’s super close to the Sao Bento Train Station. M Maison Particulière: Located in a 16th-century building in Old Town Porto, I swear a stay here has the classic feel of a Paris hotel! The decor is just timeless! Maison Albar Hotels Le Monumental Palace: Located in a renovated historic building from 1923, with beautiful design elements. Plus an unbelievable indoor swimming pool – just take a look at the photos, whoa! Bolhao/Santo Ildefonso. Bolhao is another neighborhood in Porto that I recommend staying in. This is where you’ll find the shopping street of Rua Santa Catarina, the famous Chapel of Souls, and the Mercado do Bolhão. It’s where I stayed after all, and I loved this location! The hotels and apartments are a bit cheaper than in nearby Ribeira and Baixa, and you can still walk everywhere. I chose to stay at this cute apartment in Bolhao, and I honestly never wanted to leave! It was just so cute! Recommended hotels in Bolhao:. Grande Hotel do Porto: A romantic atmosphere and a rooftop terrace with panoramic Porto views – what else could you want? Quite a gem and not noisy at all despite being on the main shopping street. Bloom House by Sweet Porto: This is where I stayed, and I was obsessed. The space was just so cute and cozy, and the staff was so helpful (plus the apartment wasn’t expensive at all)! It’s located right on Rua Santa Catarina, down the block from the Chapel of Souls. Vila Nova de Gaia. If this is the first time you’re spending 3 days in Porto, I honestly don’t recommend staying in Vila Nova de Gaia. While this neighborhood has some gorgeous views, it’s on the opposite side of the Douro River and is actually considered a different city! Getting to the main attractions and using public transport will be a bit tougher from here. However, if you want a more local feel and have a feeling you’ll be taking full advantage of the Port Houses, consider a stay here. And OMG The Yeatman looks all kinds of amazing…. Recommended hotels in Gaia:. The Yeatman: The wine hotel’s luxury spa has a large pool with the most amazing panoramic views of Porto. The whole space is super chic and elegant (where I’d choose to stay with my husband!). Caléway Hotel: Old stone architecture meets modern clean lines. Not far from both the Gaia Cable Car and D. Luis I Bridge. Additional Porto Itinerary FAQs. Currency: Like in most other European countries, the currency of Portugal (including Porto) is the euro. Don’t expect to use dollars or pounds (or any other currency) here. Porto is one of the cheapest cities in Western Europe, although it’s definitely increasing in price as the city gets more popular— so go now! Coming from an expensive city like San Francisco, hardly anything felt overpriced. Language: The official language in Portugal is Portuguese, which has some similarities to Spanish but is also very different. They’re two different languages afterall! Don’t expect locals to completely understand you if you’re speaking Spanish. Although having some knowledge of Spanish will definitely help in Portugal as some words are quite similar. With that being said, I was surprised at just how many locals knew an impressive amount of English. Because of that, I was able to communicate quite easily during my 3 days in Porto. Hotel and restaurant staff would always begin communicating in Portuguese, and then switch to English once I stated “Eu não falo português, inglês, por favor”. I found that in general, no one was upset that I didn’t understand/speak Portuguese, and they were more than happy to switch to English. They’re very friendly people! A few locals I ran into didn’t speak much if any English at all – mainly drivers, old-school restaurants, and the older generation. However, I always love learning a few important words in the local language (plus, it’s the respectful thing to do as well):. hello/hi: Olá/oi. bye: Tchau (pronounced like Ciao!). thank you: Obrigada. please: Por favor. you’re welcome: De Nada. good morning: Bom dia. good afternoon: Boa tarde. good evening: Boa noite. bathroom: banheiro. yes: sim. no: não. I don’t speak Portugese: eu não falo português. More wine, please!: mais vinho, por favor. Port Wine: Be careful with Port! It’s got a high alcohol content (20%!) yet so super easy to drink. And it’s loaded with sugar…. all components for a nasty hangover. Know your limit and stick to your boundaries (I never have more than 2 drinks, no matter what – especially when I’m traveling solo). Visiting Portugal soon? You’ll probably love these other articles about the country:. 10 Days in Portugal: The All-Time Best Itinerary Out There. The Magical Fairytale Land of Sintra. 3 Days in Lisbon, Portugal (All My Favorite Spots). Best 3 Days in Porto Itinerary. Day 1: Downtown (Baixa) and Bolhao. On the first day of your 3 day Porto itinerary, you’ll be exploring the main downtown areas of Porto – Baixa and Bolhao. If you wanna see everything on the list, prepare for an early morning start, grab an egg tart or two, and hit the ground running. You can either check out the two neighborhoods yourself, or on a walking tour. While I love wandering around a new city myself, sometimes it’s nice to follow a local around and actually learn something (instead of just admiring all the pretty architecture). This 3-hour walking tour takes you to all the main monuments (like Sao Bento train station, Livraria Lello, Aliados Avenue, etc), while delving out SO MUCH interesting info about Porto and its history. Downtown (Baixa). Livraria Lello. Harry Potter fans rejoice – this is thought to be THE place and major inspiration for JK Rowling’s Harry Potter series. And what a beautiful bookstore it is – with its Gothic style interior, dramatic red staircase leading to the second floor, and large stained glass windows. Although Rowling later actually crushed her bright-eyed fans and said she has never even been to the bookstore before, haha…. Regardless, there’s a reason it’s often called the most beautiful library in the world. And yes, this means the crowds follow. Aim to arrive before opening, and you might still even encounter a line! You decide if you wanna spend a few hours waiting to go inside … or not. I chose to skip it, because I heard it was just crazy crowded inside and the line was literally down the block. Trust me, the place is tiny and you’ll feel claustrophobic from the crowds no matter when you go. With only 3 days in Porto, I decided to admire the exterior, said goodbye to the literal thousands of people waiting, and moved on to the other attractions nearby. Die-hard Harry Potter fans: If you have your heart set on marveling at the interior (hey, I get it, I really do), there’s another way!!! Skip-the-line tickets to Livraria Lello! BOOK THIS TOUR, and you’ll get access to the bookstore without waiting in line! If I knew about this ahead of time I think I would have signed up for the tour for this reason alone! Don’t believe me? Read the reviews – guests state they completely passed the massive line and went right in! No reason to waste precious time if you’ve only got 3 days in Porto. If you don’t get skip-the-line-tickets ahead of time you’ll need to stand in not one, but two different lines. First line is to purchase a ticket, then the second is to show your ticket to actually get inside. Igreja dos Clérigos and climb up the Clérigos Bell Tower. Igreja dos Clérigos is a gorgeous Baroque church that’s a true icon of the city, built way back in 1732. While the church’s facade is full of interesting Baroque symbols, its main draw is the panoramic views of Porto at the top of Clerigos Tower. Prepare to climb about 200 steps or so – a good way to work off that Francesinha you’ll be eating for lunch! I don’t always go inside churches, but this is one you definitely don’t wanna miss. From up here, expect a phenomenal bird’s eye view of both Old Town and the Douro River. Simply stunning, and a great way to orient yourself to Porto on your first day in the city. Definitely book your skip-the-line ticket to the tower ahead of time (only $6), as I walked past tons of people waiting in line. And with only 3 days in Porto, you don’t wanna waste any precious time. The Twin Churches: Igreja Carmo & Igreja Carmelitas. Your first official sighting of those famous blue and white tiles Porto is so well known for! This 18th century baroque-rococo twin-church is one of the oldest buildings in the historic part of Porto, and I just loved it – the exterior at least. I was short on time so didn’t make it inside, but I heard it’s got an amazing Portuguese “stairway to heaven” altar. Psst — I wrote an entire post on where to see the gorgeous blue azulejos in Porto! Check that out if you’re looking for all the best spots! Sao Bento Railway Station. You may have already been here (it’s where most trains into Porto arrive), but if you haven’t, don’t miss Sao Bento Station! The station is decorated with traditional Portuguese azulejo tiles – easily the most beautiful train station in the world! Because of this, it’s typically pretty crowded (especially when large tour groups arrive). Wait around a few minutes and they’ll clear out. Indulge in a Francesinha. Finally, time for lunch! And I hope you’re hungry, because a francesinha (a famous Portuguese sandwich) is on the menu. Now, I know what you’re thinking. A sandwich? C’mon, there’s gotta be better food. But a francesinha (pronounced fran·se·si·nhuh) isn’t your regular ol’ sandwich. Imagine thick bread with ham, sausage, steak, and cheese – all smothered in a creamy tomato beer sauce and topped with an over-easy egg. It’s kinda like Portugal’s version of the French croque monsieur, but way heavier. Yes, it very well may induce a heart attack, but that’s why you’re walking everywhere in Porto (right…?). I highly recommend Brasao Restaurant, but try to make a reservation in advance as they get pretty busy! Was it worth all the calories? Heck yes, but I couldn’t even finish half of it – I was so full (great to split with a friend though). Bolhao. After a busy, busy morning/early afternoon, the second half of the day will be a bit more relaxing. Walk over to the Bolhao neighborhood, and stroll down Rua Santa Catarina – Porto’s main shopping street. There’s lots of main sites right on this street, so you can see a lot in a short period of time. Fabrica de Nata and/or Manteigaria. Fuel up for the afternoon with some of the best pasteis de nata in Porto, Portugal’s famous egg tart. Both Fabrica de Nata and Manteigaria are super popular with some of the best custard egg tarts in town. You’ve probably already had a few in Lisbon, but you’ll see – no amount of pasteis de nata is ever enough. I typically get fresh squeezed orange juice as well – so sweet and only a few euros (way cheaper than any fresh juice in the states). Read Next: All My Favorite Pastel de Nata in Porto (yes, I did some research… haha). Rua Santa Catarina. Take a walk down Rua de Santa Catarina – Porto’s main shopping street! There’s lots to see here, from local boutiques and international shops (like Zara!), to the Chapel of Souls and Majestic Cafe. It’s super stylish and romantic and there’s always tons going on. As my hotel was right on Santa Catarina, I spent a lot of time on this street! Chapel of Souls (Chapel of Santa Catarina). You’re in Porto – you’re gonna see lots and lots of beautiful tilework! But the Chapel of Souls is by far superior – there’s a reason it’s famous for its magnificent exterior of 16,000(!!!) blue & white tiles. It’s just so, so pretty! The tiles depict the death of St Francis of Assisi and the martyrdom of Santa Catarina. You can look inside if you want, but in my opinion, the real beauty is on the outside. My apartment was literally down the block, so I came here to admire the tiles all 3 days I was in Porto! Mercado do Bolhão. Being only one block away from the famed Chapel of Souls, make a quick stop here at the market (open since 1839). The market has five floors full of fishmongers, butchers, farmers, and fruit sellers offering all the seasonal specialities. During my visit to Porto, the market was undergoing much-needed renovations, so was unfortunately closed. It’s set to open again in September 2022. Fingers crossed its back open for you! Majestic Cafe. "
Output:
{
  "attractions": [
    "Livraria Lello",
    "Igreja dos Clérigos",
    "Clérigos Bell Tower",
    "Igreja Carmo & Igreja Carmelitas",
    "Sao Bento Railway Station",
    "Chapel of Souls",
    "Chapel of Santa Catarina",
    "Mercado do Bolhão"
  ],
  "restaurants": [
    "Brasao Restaurant"
  ],
  "coffee-shops": [
    "Fabrica de Nata",
    "Manteigaria",
    "Majestic Cafe"
  ]
}